CALLED THE WORD OF THE REGULAR
WORD IN PEOPLE'S MEETING FOR
THURSDAY, AUGUST 15, 2024.
>> CAN YOU HAVE LOCAL POLICE
PAUL DARLING HERE ROBERT HART
KEVIN COX HERE.
>> DAVID BERNSTORFF HERE.
>> HUGH FLAC IS ABSENT FOR CITY
STAFF MIKE AMMU HERE.
>> MICHAEL REDMANN YEAH.
JOHN RICER MYSELF,
DEBORAH WILLIAMS AND JULIETTE
HARVEY HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> NEXT ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS
PUBLIC COMMENTARY BEING KNOWN
IN PERSON.
THERE'S NO ONE VIRTUALLY FOR
PUBLIC COMMENTARY EITHER.
>> OK, WE'RE CLOSED PUBLIC
COMMENTARY PORTION.
NEXT ITEM IS APPROVED THE
AGENDA CAN WE HAVE A MOTION TO
IMPROVE THAT WOULD REQUIRE WE
HAD TO APPROVE EACH OTHER
SECOND WITH FLIPPING WITH THE
CAVEAT OK, GUESS WHO'S A
FAVORITE GUY PASSES NEXT ITEM
ON THE AGENDA AS YOU PROBABLY A
MINUTES FROM THE LOOKS LIKE THE
MARCH 25TH FIRST MEETING THERE.
ANY COMMENTS ON THOSE MINUTES
PREMATURE JUST OR CORRECTIONS?
CAN WE HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THAT MOTION?
THE APPROVAL PROCESS FAVORED BY
THOSE ARE APPROVED
.
THE NEXT ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS
APPEALS ACTIONS AND SHOW
HEARINGS.
THE FIRST ADDRESS IS BVA TWENTY
FOUR ZERO ZERO FIVE APPEAL
TWENTY TO TWENTY SEVEN MEDFORD
DRIVE
ANN ARBOR AND WE HAVE AN
APPLICATION DONE VIRTUALLY FOR
YES I'M HERE.
MY NAME'S ELIZABETH CAMPBELL.
I'M THE HOMEOWNER.
OK, THANK YOU SO THE PROCESS IS
TYPICALLY WE HAVE YOU PRESENT
HERE ARE WE WE HAVE THE STAFF
PRESENT THEIR REPORT ON THE ON
THE ON VARIANCE AND THEN WE'LL
HAVE YOU PRESENT YOUR REQUEST
FOR APPEAL.
THE BOARD WILL REVIEW THE
APPEAL AND ASK YOU QUESTIONS
AND THEN THE STAFF MAY COUNTER
THOSE DISCUSSIONS OR QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE PRESENTATION AND THEN
WE'LL MAKE A MOTION.
THE FIRST PART WILL BE MAKING
THEIR REPORT SO THE PROPERTY IS
TO TWENTY SEVEN MEDFORD'S THE
SINGLE FAMILY HOUSE.
IT WAS BUILT IN 1957.
A BUILDING PERMIT WAS ISSUED
FIVE TWENTY EIGHT TWENTY FOUR
FOR WORK DESCRIBED AS BASEMENT
FRAMING IT PLAN OF REVIEW.
IT WAS NOTED ON THE APPROVED
SITE COPY OF THE PLAN THAT THE
APPLICANTS STATED CEILING
PROJECTION TO BE GREATER THAN
SIX FEET FOUR FINISHED TO
FINISH AND ALL PROPOSED DOORS
WOULD BE EIGHT INCHES IN HEIGHT
AND FIVE THAT WAS CONFIRMED BY
RICK HOLY CITY OF ANN ARBOR
PLAN REVIEWER IF IT HAD BEEN
INDICATED THAT THE CEILING
WOULD FINISH BELOW SIX FEET
FOUR INCHES ALLOWED BY APPENDIX
J OF THE 2015 MICHIGAN
PRESIDENTIAL CODE , THIS PERMIT
WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN APPROVED OR
ISSUED.
THE PLAN REVIEWER WAS GIVEN
INACCURATE INFORMATION AND UPON
ROUGH INSPECTION IT WAS NOTED
THAT THE EXISTING DUCTWORK IS
BELOW THE REQUIRED CEILING
HEIGHT STAFF RECOMMENDS THIS
APPLICATION BE DENIED AS IT
DOESN'T MEET THE STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL.
THE CODE HAS NOT BEEN
MISINTERPRETED.
THE PROVISIONS OF THE CODE DO
APPLY IN THE EXISTING CONDITION
IS LESS SAFE THAN THE MINIMUM
REQUIREMENT OF THE TWENTY
FIFTEEN MICHIGAN RESIDENTIAL
CODE SECTION AGED SIX OH ONE
POINT FOR CEILING.
ESSENTIALLY WHAT THAT SECTION
SAYS IS THAT IN AN EXISTING
BASEMENT THAT'S BEING CONVERTED
TO HABITABLE SPACE YOU NEED A
MINIMUM OF SIX FEET EIGHT
INCHES FROM THE FLOOR TO THE
CEILING EXCEPT THAT YOU CAN
REDUCE THAT TO SIX FEET FOUR
INCHES UNDER A STRUCTURE.
THE BASIS FOR THIS APPEAL IS
THAT THE PROVISIONS OF THE
CODE NOT APPLY SECTION TWENTY
FOUR TWENTY FOUR POINT FIVE SIX
THAT'S NOT THE PROPER
.
>> SO THAT'S WHERE THE LANDS
THAT YOU HAVE NO.
SO THIS BILL DOESN'T MEET THE
STANDARDS OF APPROVAL.
THE VIOLATION DOCUMENTS DO NOT
MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE
2015 MICHIGAN RESIDENTIAL
CODE AND HAS NOT BEEN
MISINTERPRETED.
THE PROVISIONS OF THE 2015
CODE DO APPLY AND THE REDUCTION
IN CEILING IS LESS SAFE THAN
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CODE .
>> THANK YOU SO THE APPLICANT
CAN CITE THE LAST SHEET ON THE
PACKET IS THE APPROVED PLAN
WITH THE NOTES MADE BY THE PLAN
REVIEWER AND WE KNOW WHAT THE
OUTCOME OF THE WORK IS.
>> I BELIEVE IT WAS STATED THAT
AT SIX FEET TWO INCHES OK,
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE THE
APPLICANT MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION AND NOW I WOULD
LIKE TO POINT OUT THAT THERE
ARE THREE WAYS YOU CAN
GRANOVETTER THIS IS THAT THE
CODE DOESN'T APPLY THAT THE
COSMIN MISINTERPRETED OR YOU'RE
PROVIDING AN ALTERED FORM
OF CONSTRUCTION IF YOU CAN
STATE IN YOUR PRESENTATION
WHICH ONE OF THOSE THREE THAT
YOU'RE SEEKING A VARIANCE WOULD
BE HAPPY.
>> YES, I'D BE HAPPY WITH THE
TABLE.
I'M THE HOMEOWNER HOME OWNER SO
ARE DOING IT.
THIS IS NO AND FOUR
CONSTRUCTION SO WE I BELIEVE MY
CONTRACTOR WAS SIMPLY UNAWARE
OF THE FIX OR REQUIREMENTS AND
WHEN WE AS SOON AS THE
INSPECTOR INFORMED US OF IT WE
IMMEDIATELY CALLED TO DIFFERENT
AITARAK PROVIDERS TO COME OUT
AND US TO MAKE IT COMPLIANT
WITH SIX FEET FOUR INCHES.
THE ISSUE ISN'T THAT THE
OVERALL VOLUME OF THE DUCT WORK
WOULD NEED TO BE CHANGED AND IT
WOULD REQUIRE A FULL BASICALLY
WE WOULD HAVE TO REDO THE
ENTIRE HOME TO GET THE PROPER
VOLUME BY REMOVING THE TWO
INCHES THAT WE HAVE ON THE DEBT
TO THE WIDTH AND BOTH A FACTOR
WRITERS EXPLAIN TO US THAT THEY
WOULD HAVE TO HAVE BASILI LASER
CUT DUCTWORK IN ORDER TO MAKE
IT A SIX INCH OR TO REDUCE
DEPTH TO THE DUCTWORK AND THAT
THE COST OF THAT ALONE WOULD BE
TWELVE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED
DOLLARS.
THAT DOESN'T ACCOUNT FOR THE
ADDITIONAL COST TO THEN ADD
THAT THE BASEMENT AS WE WERE
TRYING TO DO IT AND IT'S TWO
IT'S TWO INCHES AWAY FROM THE
SIX FOOT FOUR INCH REQUIREMENT
WE HAVE IN LIVING LIKE THIS
WITH THIS WORK WITHOUT AN ISSUE
FOR THE LAST SINCE WE BOUGHT
THE HOUSE FROM THIS WAY AND YOU
SIMPLY CAN'T COMPLETE THE
BASEMENT WITH THE ADDITIONAL
COST OF A MINIMUM OF TWELVE
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS
THAT THE BASEMENT WILL SIT HALF
COMPLETED OUR FRAMES HAVE
DRYWALL BECAUSE ARE AT THIS
POINT AND WE WOULDN'T BE ABLE
TO FINISH IT.
I NOTED IN THE HOUSING CODE I
REALIZE THIS IS BUILDING BUT IN
THE HOUSING CODE IT
SPECIFICALLY SAYS THEY WON'T
GRANT VARIANCES UNDER SIX FEET.
SO THERE SEEMS TO BE SOME
UNDERSTANDING THAT IN SOME
INSTANCES HABITABLE BASEMENT
SPACE MAY HAVE A CLEARANCE
BETWEEN SIX FEET AND SIX FOOT
FORWARD INSTEAD OF NOT THE
BUILDING CODE .
IT'S A DIFFERENT CODE THAT I
KNOW THAT.
>> SO AS IT STANDS WE'RE JUST
GOING TO BE STUCK WITH A
PARTIALLY FINISHED BASEMENT
INTEL.
I DON'T KNOW WHEN BECAUSE
OF THE EXPECTED TWELVE THOUSAND
FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS COST FOR
THE WORK THAT YOU HAVE BEEN
LIVING WITH LIKE THIS FOR THE
LAST 11 YEARS.
MY HUSBAND BOTH OF YOUR
MISTAKES I DON'T KNOW IF HE
WANT TO ADD ANYTHING TO MY
STATEMENT.
>> YES.
THANK YOU, MISS CAMPBELL.
I WOULD JUST SAY I YOU KNOW,
WE'RE NOT BUILDING NEW SPACE
HERE.
WE'RE JUST FINISHING THE
BASEMENT THAT WE'VE BEEN LIVING
WITH FOR MORE THAN A DECADE.
THIS IS DUCTWORK IT HASN'T BEEN
A DANGER.
I HAVEN'T HIT MY HEAD ON IT AND
I UNDERSTAND THE INTENTION
OF THE CODE IS TO INCREASE
SAFETY BUT WE HAVEN'T HAD A
SAFETY ISSUE AT ALL IN THE
DECADE THAT WE'VE HAD TO LIVE
WITH THAT DOCKED.
SO I IT JUST SEEMS LIKE THIS IS
A SITUATION WHERE A FAIRLY
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION COULD
BE REACHED TO ALLOW US TO
FINISH THIS PROJECT ESPECIALLY
SINCE WE'RE NOT BUILDING
ANYTHING NEW.
WE'RE JUST FINISHING EXISTING
SPACE.
OK, OK.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PRESENTATION
AND YOU KIND OF REMEMBER THAT I
JUST WANT TO SAY THAT APPENDIX
J OF THE RESIDENTIAL CODE IS
SPECIFICALLY WRITTEN FOR
EXISTING BASEMENTS THAT'S TAKEN
INTO CONSIDERATION AND IT'S A
REDUCED HEIGHT FROM WHAT THE
TWENTY FIFTEEN MICHIGAN
BUILDING CODE OTHER SECTIONS
WOULD REQUIRE.
>> SO THE CODE IN THE
CODE THEY'VE ALREADY GIVEN A
REDUCTION FOR AN UNDERSTANDING
AT SOMETIMES BASEMENTS WON'T
MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF NEW
CONSTRUCTION SO THE ALLOWANCES
WERE MADE DOWN TO SIX FEET FOUR
INCHES.
OK, THANK YOU.
>> ANY QUESTIONS FROM THE APP
FROM THE OBORNE TO THE
APPLICANT.
>> YEAH ONE ARE YOU GOING TO
WAS YOUR INTENT TO CREATE
FRAMING AROUND EXISTING
DUCTWORK?
>> NO WE'RE NOT WE'RE NOT GOING
TO LOWER THE HEIGHT AT ALL OK
NO IT'S A THERE'S NO WE'RE
ACTUALLY JUST GOING TO LEAVE
THE DUCTWORK SO THAT'S IT IS
RIGHT NOW OK AND I SURE THERE
WAS ONE WHENEVER I DON'T SEE IN
THE PLAN WHERE THAT IS AS FAR
AS THE HEAD ROOM IS THERE OK
AND WHERE'S THE STAY WE'RE HERE
IN THE DUCTWORK IS HERE DO YOU
WANT THE WINDOW IS ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF THAT OK IT'S FAR AWAY.
>> IT'S ON THE SOUTH WALL AND
THAT'S ALREADY BEEN INSPECTED
BY SO IT LOOKS LIKE TO WALK
UNDERNEATH THE DOCK WITH THE
ONLY SPACE YOU'RE GOING TO IS
AN UNFINISHED STORAGE ROOM AND
WHATEVER THE RIVERS TO THE EAST
TO THAT SPACE.
>> WHAT IS THAT YOU IN THAT
SPACE THAT'S JUST STORAGE.
IT'S NOT LIVABLE.
>> YOU KNOW THE SPACE WHERE
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE IS THE
MAIN AREA YOU SEE OUT OF THAT
WHERE THE STAIRS LEAD TO THAT'S
GOING TO BE THE KIDS PLAY AREA
THAT'S ALSO CALLED THE BATHROOM
THAT'S BEING PUT IN.
THAT'S ALL TO CODE AND THE
OFFICE SLASH BEDROOM THAT'S
CODE .
>> SO THE ONLY TIME THIS WOULD
BE AN ISSUE IS WHEN WE'RE
WALKING TO USE THE A STORAGE
AREA
AND
SMOKE DETECTION ON
BOTH SIDES OF THAT DON'T WORK
AS FAR AS WHEN PART OF THE
REASON FOR HEADROOM IS
PARTIALLY VOLUME FOR SMOKE TO
DROP IN AND FIRE AND STUFF FOR
YOU TO GET OUT SAFELY WITHOUT
BEING LOWER SMOKING TO KIND
OF COLLECTING EACH SIDE OF THAT
AS SOON AS A DOCTOR IN THE
SURGERY.
BUT I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT
CONFIGURATION IS IS THAT'S
LOOKING AT ADDITIONAL DETECTORS
POTENTIALLY TO HELP OFFSET THAT
DIFFERENCE IBRAM.
THAT'S NO PROBLEM.
WE'D BE HAPPY TO PUT UP AS MANY
SMOKE DETECTORS AS YOU WANT BUT
THIS WAS THIS WAS LIKE THIS
WHEN THE GUYS PURCHASED THE
HOUSE.
>> YES.
SO IT'S AN EXISTING CONDITION
FROM THE ORIGINAL FILM.
>> YEAH.
YES.
AND YOU GUYS ARE TRYING TO
REMODEL IT AND THIS WAS AN
EXISTING THING.
>> YES.
AND WE'RE NOT WE'RE NOT TALKING
ABOUT MODIFYING IT AT ALL.
I NEED TO GET I CAN MODIFY THE
STANDARD BUT THE COST IS THE
COST.
>> SO ALL WE'RE DOING IS
LITERALLY LEAVING AT THE EXACT
SAME WAY THAT IT HAS BEEN FOR
THE LAST TEN YEARS.
BUT WE ARE TO THE REST OF THE
BASEMENT WITH DUCTWORK IS NOT
GOING TO BE THERE'S GOING TO BE
NO OTHER FRAMING OR NOTHING
ADDED TO THE BUFFER YOU'RE
ADDING VOLUME, YOU'RE NOT
PUTTING REGISTERS AND YOU'RE
NOT TAPPING TO WE'LL BE ADDING
THE BEDROOM BUT THAT BUCKWORTH
ACTUALLY
NETCO THE RESPECTIVE
DIRECTIONS THAT ARE I THINK MY
LOVELY WIFE IS LOSING HER
RECEPTION HERE.
>> THERE'S NO THERE'S REALLY NO
NEED TO THE LOOKING COLLECTIVE
OK OK SO THE THE OTHER DUCTWORK
IT'S NEEDED FOR THE BASEMENT
AND THE BEDROOM TAX INTO THE
LINE AT A DIFFERENT POINT.
SO THE SPECIALIST TOLD US THAT
WOULDN'T AFFECT THE OVERALL
VOLUME.
AND ARE ALL THESE WALLS DOWN
HERE NEW OR SOME OF THESE
THINGS EXISTING AND SOME NEW?
>> THERE'S AN UNFINISHED YOU
SEE NOW AND YOU'RE ADDING ALL
THE WALLS IN THE BATHROOM
WHAT'S WHAT'S WHAT IS THE SCOPE
THE WALL THAT SEPARATES THE
BATHROOM AND THE STORAGE AREA
IS THE EXISTING AND THEN THE
WALL THAT COMES THAT RUNS EAST
TO WHILST THERE WAS A WALL
THERE THAT ZIG-ZAG A LITTLE BIT
SO WE'VE REPLACED THAT WITH A
STRAIGHT WALL COS
AND THEN THE
BATHROOM WALL IS NOW
DOES THE
DUCT THAT'S CLOSEST TO THE
STRUCTURAL POST DOES THAT RUN
INTO THE BATHROOM AT THAT
HEIGHT OF GLOBAL WARMING.
>> OH I THINK IT DOES GO INTO
THE BATHROOM ABOVE WHERE THE
VANITY WILL BE PLACED AND HOW
ABOUT OVER THE WATER CLOSET.
I KNOW IT IT JARS SO IT DOES A
DOGLEG LEFT AND I GOES BACK
INTO THE UTILITY ROOM.
>> I REMOVE THE FIXTURES.
IS THAT ISSUE MY I DON'T KNOW
WHERE THE LOCATIONS OF THE
MEASUREMENT ARE JUST THAT BELOW
THE MINIMUM OF THE COAT THIS IS
SIX TO THAT BE MIGHT BE SIX FOR
POSSIBLE IT CAN BE TWO INCHES
BY TO SAY NO NO THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO BE MID SIX FOR OBAMA
TO BE SIX FOR NO NO THE TOP IF
IT EXTENDS NO BATHROOM DOOR
WOULD BE THE SAME FOR THE
LAVATORY SIX TWO.
IS THAT AN ISSUE THAT I DON'T
HAVE A WHOLE BASEMENT PROBABLY
THE SIX TO FOR THE HOLE.
>> YEAH YEAH.
THE THE INSPECTOR NOTED THAT HE
DIDN'T MEET THE MINIMUM
REQUIRED MORE THAN ONE SPOT
IT'S PROBABLY THE ABOUT YEAH
IT'S JUST THERE ARE TWO LINES
OF THE ONE IS THE MAIN NORTH
SOUTH I DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS
THE RIGHT WORD.
I'M A GRANT WRITER NOT A TRACK
GUY BUT THE MAIN ROAD THAT RUNS
NORTH SOUTH AND THEN THERE IS A
RETURN ON THAT STREET NEXT TO
THAT IS ALSO BUT MOST OF THE
DUCTWORK IN THE BASEMENT OTHER
THAN THAT IS UP WITHIN THE
SPACE.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
SO THE SQUARE FLOODED IN THE
BASEMENT THAT'S ACTUALLY
UNDERNEATH THE OFFENDING
DUCTWORK IS ONLY TWENTY FOUR
FEET IT'S FIFTY TWO SORT
OF LINE AND THEN AS I INDICATED
IT DOES EXTEND THAT DOES EXTEND
INTO THE BATHROOM OVER THE
VANITY ONLY THE THE VANITY IS
BELOW THAT DUCTWORK BUT IT'S
NOT OVER THE TOILET.
OK THE ONLY REASON I ASKED IS
BECAUSE IF A MOTION IS MADE TO
IMPROVE YOUR VARIANCE I WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT THERE ISN'T
ANOTHER HIDDEN PROBLEM THAT'S
GOING TO COME BACK I I DEEPLY
UNDERSTAND AND TOTALLY AGREE.
YEAH.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
COVER OUR FACES IF THERE'S AN
OBJECTION TO BECAUSE WE WOULD
MOTION FOR A VIEWING FOR THAT
AS WELL
AND THE QUESTION FOR
THE BOARD TO THE APPLICANT
AND
WE DON'T NEED THEM BECAUSE WE
WERE RIGHT OUT OF THE BEDROOM
OR SUPEREGOS WE EGRESSED NEEDS
TO BE AT THE BEDROOM.
>> THIS IS THE MEDIUM HERE.
THIS IS A VERY NICE LONG ROOM
OK AND THAT'S OK.
>> IT'S ALL RIGHT IT'S GOOD FOR
THAT.
OK
HAS TO BE AN ALL HABITABLE
SPACE IS THAT CORRECT.
YES WELL SPACE AND SO THEY
HAVEN'T HAD AND HAVEN'T
OCCUPIED IT HAVE THAT IT'S THE
SIX FEET EIGHT AND THE SIX FEET
FOUR IS FOR HABITABLE SPACE.
YEAH WOULDN'T NEED TO BE IN IN
A LONG IN THE MECHANICAL ROOM
OF POTENTIALLY THE ONE YOU'RE
RIGHT RIGHT SO THE REAL FOCUS
IS BETWEEN THE STAIRWAY AND THE
BATHROOM THE BATHROOM BEDROOM
THOSE TWO SPACES FOR
OH WE'RE
WORKING ON A POTENTIAL MOTION
HERE LOOKS LIKE YES OK I OUT
THE WRONG ONE GOT A COPY
VISION
OF BUILDING NINE WAS RIGHT I
HAD TO DO OK.
ALL RIGHT I MOVED IT IN THE
CASE OF DEBA TWENTY FOUR DASH
ZERO ZERO ZERO FIVE THE APPEAL
OF THE BUILDING OFFICIALS
DECISION THAT TO LOCATE OOPS
I'M SORRY I SHOULDN'T SAY MORE
SORRY SORRY SORRY.
ONE MOMENT IS AT THE BACK
DISTRIBUTION IN THE LEFT.
YEAH THANK YOU
.
>> STARTING OVER I MOVED IN IN
THE CASE OF BEEBER TWENTY FOUR
DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO FIVE THE
APPEALS BUILDING OFFICIALS
DECISION THAT THE CEILING
HEIGHT MUST BE THE MINIMUM SIX
FOOT FOUR INCHES UNDER
OBSTRUCTIONS A TWO TO TWO SEVEN
MEDFORD
IS A BRILLIANT I'M
SORRY I GOT TO START ONE MORE
TIME.
>> YEAH ALL RIGHT HERE WE GO.
I MOVE THAT IN THE CASE
OF BEEBER 24 DASH ZERO ZERO
ZERO FIVE UPL THE BUILDING
OFFICIALS DECISION ISN'T
ANGASTON THERE'S A WORD YES
RIGHT.
ANEURISMS.
YEAH THAT'S RIGHT.
NO IT'S THE CEILING HEIGHT.
>> YEAH THE CODE SECTIONS ARE
CORRECT.
IT'S JUST THE SAME YEAH YEAH
IT'S IN THE DENIED ONE IS
CORRECT TERMINOLOGY OVER HERE
THE DENIED ONE MIGHT BE THE
RIGHT RIGHT UP BUT YOU RIGHT
HE'S TWENTY ONE YOU'RE
CHALLENGING HERE MAYBE THE WAY
TO DO IS THIS I THINK I'VE GOT
IT I THINK PAGE TWENTY ONE GET
YOU THERE BUT CHANGING THE WORD
DENIED TO YEAH YEAH MAYBE IT'S
A GOOD STARTING POINT.
>> YEAH I'LL USE PAGE TWENTY
ONE BUT YOU KNIGHT OR GRANT IF
YOU WILL OK LET'S TRY THIS ONE
MORE TIME.
HERE YOU GO.
>> WHAT TIME LUCKY
OK
OK OK I
MOVED IT IN YOUR CASE BBA 24
DASH ZERO ZERO FIVE THE APPEAL
OF THE BUILDING OFFICIALS
DECISION THAT THE CEILING
HEIGHT MUST BE AT A MINIMUM SIX
FOOT FOUR INCHES UNDER
OBSTRUCTION AT TWO TO TWO SEVEN
METFORD IS GRANTED RELIEF FROM
THE 2015 MICHIGAN RESIDENTIAL
CODE AND THE BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS REVERSES THE
BUILDING OFFICIALS DECISIONS
FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON THAT
THE APPLICANT NUMBER THREE THE
APPLICANT WILL NOT INCREASE THE
EXISTING NON-COMPLIANT
CONDITION STIPULATIONS INCLUDE
THAT THERE BE SMOKE DETECTION
SYSTEMS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
DUCT WORK THAT THE UNDERSIDE
OF THE DUCTS DUCTS WILL NOT BE
FINISHED, THAT THEY WILL NOT BE
THE THE CEILING THE DUCT TAPE
WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED AN
IMPEDIMENT OVER THE BATHROOM
LAVATORY AND WATER CLOSET AND
WITH A FURTHER RECOMMENDATION
THAT A PROTECTIVE CUSHIONED
CORNER EDGE TO THE DUCTS BE
PROVIDED THAT A STIPULATION OUR
RECOMMENDATION THAT'S A
RECOMMENDATION MIGHT BE THAT
SOMETHING YOU CAN DO I MEAN I
CAN ENFORCE ITS WE CAN'T
ENFORCE RECOMMENDATION YOU MAKE
IT A REQUIREMENT WITH A
PROTECTIVE EDGE WOULD BE IF AT
THE HEIGHT THEY POTENTIALLY
WENT IN IT WOULD BUT I'M JUST
WORRIED ABOUT SOMEBODY WALKING
INTO THAT IT WOULDN'T HAVE THE
DUCTWORK.
YEAH.
AND IT WOULD SEEM THAT TO HAVE
AN EXTRA LITTLE HALF INCH
INTRUSION INTO THE CEILING
HEIGHT WOULDN'T BE A SAFETY
VISUAL SAFETY TAPE WOULD BE NO
THICKNESS AND YOU SEE IT MORE I
DON'T KNOW JUST SOMETHING
BECAUSE BEFORE WE DISCUSSED
THIS SHOW THERE'S A SECOND TO
EMOTION.
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT AND JUST
COULD YOU READ IT BACK TO THE
IT COVER AND GET IT DOWN?
MAYBE THE APPLICANT BEEN
WRITING IT DOWN.
OK, WHAT ARE THE STIPULATED THE
STIPULATIONS INCLUDE SMOKE
DETECTION SYSTEM ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE BANK THAT THE DUCT THE
TWO DUCTS WILL NOT BE FINISHED
ON THEIR UNDERSIDES, THAT THE
HEIGHT OF THE EXISTING DUCTS
WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED AND
PEDIMENT OVER THE BATHROOM
LAVATORY IN THE WATER CLOSET
AND THAT THERE BE A PROTECTIVE
CUSHIONED CORNER EDGE TO THE
DUCT TO BOTH DUCTS.
THAT NUMBER FOUR THAT'S NUMBER
FOUR
.
I MEAN IF YOU HAVE THAT
WAS
THERE A FINDING WITH RESPECT TO
ONE, TWO OR THREE?
I THINK HE SAID IT WAS A THREE
OR TWO MISINTERPRETED FORM
OF CONSTRUCTION.
IT SOUNDS LIKE THREE IT'S IT'S
THREE BUT IT'S NOT A IT'S NOT A
BETTER OR EQUAL FORM
OF CONSTRUCT AND IT'S AN
ACKNOWLEDGMENT THAT IT'S AN
EXISTING CONDITION, AN EXISTING
NON-COMPLYING CONDITION THAT
ISN'T GOING TO BE MADE WORSE
IN
A WAY IT'S KIND OF A
MODIFICATION J I GUESS YOU'RE
SAYING IT'S A TERRIBLE POSITION
VISIBILITY OF NO.
>> YOU KNOW,
OK, IF YOU HAVE A
SECOND ON THE MOTION WE HAD TO
OK DISCUSSION OR DISCUSSION
THOSE IN FAVOR I I THOSE ARE
AGAINST NO AGAINST PASSES FOUR
TO ZERO.
SO YOU HAVE A GRANTED AT
VARIANCE WITH THE CONDITIONS
STIPULATED SO YOU SHOULD BE
GETTING A NOTIFICATION FROM THE
DEPARTMENT WITH THIS FIRST
APPROVAL.
VERY GOOD.
WELL THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH
FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION.
WE REALLY APPRECIATE THAT THE
VARIANCE AT FIVE VERY GENEROUS
OF YOU ALL TO DO THIS FOR OUR
FAMILY AND I USE YOUR TIME FOR
THE CITY.
SO THANK YOU VERY THANK YOU.
>> I'LL I'LL SEND YOU AN
UPDATED MOTION FOR YOU TO SIGN,
OK?
>> CAN I ASK A QUICK QUESTION
IF YOU SIT ARE YOU DEBORAH WHEN
YOU SEND THAT MOTION TO I SEE
IT YEAH.
>> CAN I WHAT LATITUDE DO I
HAVE TO MAKE CORRECTIONS.
>> NO NO NOT YET ON THAT THAT'S
WHY WE GOT IT RIGHT THEY SHOULD
GET YOU OUT OF WRITING AND
SHE'S NOT GOING TO LEAVE UNTIL
SHE GETS WHATEVER WAS PUT ON
THIS RECORD.
WE CAN'T CHANGE WHAT HAPPENED
OVER MEANING THAT THERE'S JUST
NO AUTHORITY TO CHANGE ANYTHING
.
>> WE CAN'T MAKE SCRIBNER'S
ERRORS.
WE DON'T HAVE THAT.
>> OK, IT'S CLEAR
OK, WE HAVE
AN APPLICANT FOR THE SECOND PMO
OK WHICH ONE WHEN I DIDN'T RIP
OK SO THE NEXT ITEM ON THE
AGENDA IS APPEAL BBA TWENTY
FOUR ZERO ZERO TWO AT FOURTEEN
THIRTY FIVE CATALINA DRIVE IN
ARBER AND THE FIRST ITEM ON THE
AGENDA THE FIRST ITEM TO TALK
ABOUT THE STAFF REPORT THERE
FOR THE VARIOUS REQUESTS SO THE
PROPERTY FOURTEEN THIRTY FIVE
CATALINA TO SINGLE FAMILY
PROPERTY THAT WAS BUILT IN 1958
UPON A MECHANICAL INSPECTION ON
THE PERMIT MEAC AGE TWENTY
THREE DASH TWO SIX FIVE FOUR.
IT WAS NOTED THAT THE GASLINE
EXITS THE HOUSE BELOW GRADE AND
ENTERS THE GARAGE BELOW GRADE
BUILDING PERMIT WAS ISSUED FOR
SEVEN AND SEVEN TWENTY ONE FOR
IT DESCRIBED AS INSTALLING
FOOTING GARAGE FLOOR TWO
STOREY GARAGE STRUCTURE DOORS
WINDOWS SIDING ROOFING GUTTERS
SEWER WATER ELECTRIC.
THE BUILDING PERMIT WAS FINAL
SIX TWENTY NINE OF TWENTY THREE
PLUMBING PERMIT PUMAR TWENTY
TWO DASH THREE ONE NINE ZERO
FOUR WERE DESCRIBED AS
INSTALLING ROOF PLUMBING SYSTEM
TO GARAGE STRUCTURE TRENCH FOUR
DRAINAGE WATER GASLINE FOR
FUTURE INSTALLATION.
THE PERMIT WAS ISSUED 93
OF TWENTY TWO AND NO FINAL
INSPECTION WAS PERFORMED ON
THAT PERMIT AND IS CURRENTLY
EXPIRED.
NO MECHANICAL PERMIT WAS PULLED
FOR THE GAS LINE TO THE GARAGE
WHICH IS REQUIRED PER SECTION
G24 ONE FIVE POINT SIX OF THE
2015 MICHIGAN RESIDENTIAL
CODE .
THE GASLINE EXITING AND
ENTERING THE BUILDING BELOW
GRADE IS A VIOLATION OF THE
CODE STAFF RECOMMENDS THE
APPLICATION IS DENIED AS IT
DOESN'T MEET THE STANDARDS FOR
THE CODE CODE HAS NOT BEEN
MISINTERPRETED AND THE
PROVISIONS OF THE CODE DO APPLY
THE EXISTING CONDITION IS LESS
SAFE THAN A MINIMUM MINIMUM
REQUIREMENT OF THE 2015
MICHIGAN RESIDENTIAL
CODE SECTION G TWO FOUR ONE
FIVE POINT SIX THAT STATES THE
UNDERGROUND PENETRATIONS
PROHIBITED GAS PIPING SHALL NOT
PENETRATE BUILDING FOUNDATION
WALLS AT ANY POINT BELOW GRADE
GAS PIPING SHALL ENTER AND EXIT
A BUILDING AT A POINT ABOVE
GRADE AND THE ANNULAR SPACE
BETWEEN THE PIPE AND THE WALL
SHALL BE SEALED.
CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY IS
ANOTHER SECTION THAT I WANTED
TO REFERENCE DURING THIS WITH
REGARDS TO THE CONTRACTOR WHO
INSTALLED THE GAS LINE IT SHALL
BE THE DUTY OF EVERY PERSON WHO
PERFORMS WORK FOR THE
INSTALLATION OR REPAIR BUILDING
STRUCTURE ELECTRICAL GAS,
MECHANICAL AND PLUMBING SYSTEMS
FOR WHICH THIS CODE IS
APPLICABLE TO COMPLY TO THE
CODE .
THE GAS LINE IS MENTIONED IN
PLUMBING PERMIT TWENTY THREE OR
TWENTY TWO THREE ONE NINE ZERO
BUT NO MECHANICAL PERMIT WAS
ISSUED FOR THE GASLINE
.
THE INSPECTOR ON THE FINAL
INSPECTION OF THE MECHANICAL
TWENTY THREE TO SIX FIVE FOUR
STATED AS INSPECTION THAT THE
GAS PRESSURE TEST WAS APPROVED
BY THE CONTRACTOR THAT
INSTALLED THE GAS LINE TO THE
GARAGE WAS INSTALLED WITH NO
PERMIT, NO INSPECTION GAS LINE
IS INSTALLED BELOW GRADE
IN-HOUSE AND BELOW GRADE SLAB
AND GARAGE.
IT NEEDS TO BE CORRECTED BEFORE
GENERATOR FINAL IS APPROVED AND
THEN HE MAKES A NOTE TO THE CAN
THE CURRENT CONTRACTOR WHO
PULLED THE PERMIT FOR THE
GENERATOR INSTALLATION THAT
THERE'S NO ACTION ON THEIR PART
NEEDED AT THIS TIME AND THAT HE
COULD BE CONTACTED WITH
QUESTIONS.
THE BASIS OF THE APPEAL IS THAT
THE PROVISIONS OF THE CODE DO
NOT APPLY SECTION G FOUR TO
FOUR ONE FIVE POINTS SORRY
SECTION G TWENTY FOUR FIFTEEN
POINT SIX WAS THE ADOPTED
CODE AT THE TIME
OF INSTALLATION CLEARLY STATES
THAT UNDERGROUND PENETRATIONS
ARE PROHIBITED WITH THAT THIS
APPEAL DOESN'T MEET THE
STANDARDS OF APPROVAL.
THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE
THE AFRICAN PRESENT REQUEST FOR
A VARIANCE AND IF YOU CAN STATE
WHICH STANDARD FOR APPROVAL
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR VARIANCE FOR
THE INTENT OF THE CODE DOESN'T
APPLY IF YOU'RE SOME CLEAR,
GOOD OR BETTER THAN THE CODE OR
THE CODE IS MISINTERPRETED.
SO HI MY NAME IS STEVE RICE.
I'M THE HOMEOWNER.
I APOLOGIZE.
I AM NOT A CONTRACTOR SO I
MIGHT NOT BE USING ALL THE
CORRECT TERMS.
I HOPE YOU'LL BEAR WITH ME FOR
A MOMENT SO THAT THE REASON
THAT WE ASKED FOR THE VARIANCE
WAS THAT WE ALL HAVE EVERYTHING
THAT WE DID FOR THIS GENERATOR
AND WHAT IS BEING HELD UP NOW
IS THIS GENERATOR ONLY ABOUT I
DON'T KNOW, SIX OR EIGHT FEET
OF PIPE WAS INSTALLED IN THE
GENERATOR WAS INSTALLED.
SO BASICALLY EVERYTHING FOR
THIS GENERATOR THAT IS BEING
LOOKED AT MEETS THE CODE .
>> SO WHAT DOESN'T MEET THE
CODE WAS PREVIOUS WORK THAT
AGAIN HAD BEEN I THOUGHT ALL
FINALIZED AND ALL GOOD.
SO WE WERE WE WERE ACTUALLY
VERY SURPRISED TO FIND THAT
THERE WAS AN ISSUE WITH
ANYTHING.
>> SO LIKE I SAID, THE BASIS
FOR THE APPEAL WAS WAS
BASICALLY THAT WE WERE KIND
OF GRANDFATHERED IN ON THE OLD
STUFF AND THE NEW STUFF ALL
MATT
, WHEN WAS THE LAST
QUESTION?
YEAH.
WHEN WAS THE OLD STUFF WITH
CONSTRUCTION STARTED IN TWENTY
TWENTY TWO AND FINISHED IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
I DON'T KNOW THE EXACT MONTH I
THOUGHT THIS WAS YOUR
CONTRACTOR INSTALLED CORRECT.
YEAH THE UNDERGROUND PIPE YES.
>> I MEAN SO WE WENT THROUGH
SORT OF A GENERAL CONTRACTOR
RIGHT AND HE HAD SOME STUFF
THAT WAS SORT OF SUBCONTRACTED
I GUESS AS FAR AS LIKE WHO'S
LICENSED FOR WHAT I CAN'T SAY
EXACTLY WHO DID WHAT BUT I HAVE
CONTACT INFORMATION FOR MY
GENERAL CONTRACTOR.
I HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT THE
GENERAL RUN OF THE GAS LINE.
SO THE ORIGINAL HOUSE DATES
FROM 1958, CORRECT.
>> THE GAS COMES IN TO A METER
.
THAT IS CORRECT.
AND THEN IT IS THERE A BASEMENT
TO THE YES.
>> OK, SO FROM METER ACROSS TO
WHERE THE NEW GARAGE EDITION IS
DOES THAT RUN ACROSS THE
CEILING IN THE BASEMENT?
YES.
OK, IT THEN GOES THROUGH THE
FOUNDATION WALL OF THE HOUSE
AND TURNS UP INTO THE NEW
GARAGE.
>> IT'S GARAGE DETACHED GARAGE
IT IS A DETACHED GARAGE SO
THERE'S I DON'T KNOW TWENTY
FEET OR SO THAT IT RUNS
UNDERGROUND AND WE RAN IT AT
THE SAME TIME WE RAN PLUMBING
AND WATER OUT THERE DETACHED
GARAGE.
>> SO WHAT WHAT IS THE
PHOTOGRAPH ON PAGE 17
ILLUSTRATING IS IT ILLUSTRATING
WHERE THE GAS PIPE IS RUNNING
FROM THE HOUSE UNDERGROUND AND
THEN IT TURNS UP IN THE GARAGE
AND THEN IT GOES BACK OUTSIDE
OF THE GARAGE TO THE GENERATOR
.
I APOLOGIZE.
I'M NOT LOOKING AT IT RIGHT
THIS SECOND BUT I CAN I CAN
KIND OF DESCRIBE IT SO IT GOES
THROUGH THE FOUNDATION WHILE
THE HOUSE IT RUNS UNDERGROUND.
IT DOES RUN UNDERNEATH THE IT
RUNS THROUGH THE FOUNDATION
WALL AND THEN COMES UP THROUGH
THE GARAGE FLOOR.
I THINK I HAD ONE PICTURE OF IT
COMING THROUGH THE GARAGE FLOOR
WHICH WAS AGAIN OLD WORK THEN
IT RUNS IT RUNS UP THE WALL AND
ALONG THE CEILING OF THE GARAGE
AND THEN DOWN THE WALL AND
THROUGH THE WALL ABOVE GRADE TO
WHERE THE GENERATOR WAS
INSTALLED AND THAT THAT ABOVE
GRADE POINT WHERE IT GOES
THROUGH THE WALL INTO THE
GENERATOR IS IS WHAT'S ON THIS
PERMIT.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
QUADRUPLY HAVE TO COME UP TO
THE WALL LIKE THIS GO BACK DOWN
BELOW GROUND BACK UP AROUND TO
SHOULD THAT WENT UP TO LIKE
THIS INSTEAD OF RIGHT THROUGH
THE WALL AND THEN UP ABOVE
GRADE FOR THE FITTING.
SO SO ON PAGE SEVENTEEN THAT'S
TWELVE UP THROUGH THE FLOOR IF
YOU IF YOU FLIP TO THE OTHER
SIDE OF THAT CONCRETE BLOCK YOU
WOULD BE OUTSIDE.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
SO IT SEEMS I MEAN AM I
MISUNDERSTANDING THIS IF THEY
TAP THE GAS LINE ON THE OUTSIDE
OF THE GARAGE, BRING IT UP A
FOOT AND THEN CONNECT BACK INTO
THE GARAGE, THEY'D BE ALL RIGHT
BACK AT THE HOUSE AND THEN OSAS
HOUSE IN.
>> YEAH, I WOULD IT WOULD NEED
TO DO SOMETHING SIMILAR AT THE
HOUSE COME OUT ABOVE GROUND.
YEAH.
CONTRACTOR STEPPING IT UP
OUTSIDE YOU KNOW BUT WHAT
ATTEMPTS HAVE BEEN MADE RIGHT
NOW IT'S I GUESS NO ATTEMPTS
HAVE BEEN MADE THAT THE
COMPLAINT THAT WE HAD WAS THAT
IT'S ENTIRELY IN IN ONE I MEAN
IT WAS I WOULDN'T EVEN CALL IT
A PIPE FOR ME IT'S LIKE THAT
YELLOW YOU LIKE WHAT YOU ATTACH
A HOSE TO HARD PIPE TO LIKE
YOUR STOVE OR DRYER EXCEPT IT'S
LIKE TWO INCH PIPE BUT IT'S
IT'S ONLY ONE PIECE FROM WHERE
IT LEAVES THE HOUSE TO WHERE IT
IS IS JUST BELOW THE GRADE.
SO IT SEEMED VERY SILLY TO GO
CUT INTO THAT AND ADD MORE
JOINTS WHEN THE ISSUE IS A BUT
I ASSUME THE ISSUE WITH THIS
CODE AND WHY THE CODE WAS
UPDATED WAS FOR LEAKS.
>> SO IT SEEMED SILLY TO PUT
MORE JOINTS IN AS A POTENTIAL
LEAK POINTS WHEN WE ALREADY
PASSED THE PRESSURE TEST YOU
PASSED A PRESSURE TEST FOR YOUR
NEW STUFF, NOT FOR THE OLD
STUFF.
>> WE PASSED THE PRESSURE TEST
FOR THE OLD STUFF AS WELL.
EVERYTHING EVERYTHING WAS
PRESSURE TESTED AND IT WAS
INSTALLED.
SO WHEN THE GARAGE WAS
INSTALLED WE DID THAT AND WE
RAN A BUNCH OF IN PREPARATION
FOR THIS GENERATOR INSTALL AND
THE GENERATORS GENERATOR
INSTALLED.
THEY THEY DID PRESSURE TESTING
TOO AND AGAIN IT PASSED.
>> BUT THE ISSUE ISN'T THE
PRESSURE TEST.
THE ISSUE IS THE FACT THAT
YOU'VE GOT TO PIPE GAS COMING
IN UNDER THE GARAGE SLAB AND
THEN TURNING UP IN THE GARAGE
IF IT TURNED IT OUTSIDE THE
GARAGE AND THEN CAME INTO THE
GARAGE ABOVE THE SLAB WOULD BE
FINE.
IT SEEMS LIKE A RELATIVE OF THE
SIMPLE FIX TO COMPLY WITH THE
CODE .
>> YEAH, THE ONLY ISSUE IS THAT
IT'S BRAND NEW CONCRETE OUTSIDE
WE WOULD HAVE TO DIG UP AND
THEN DIG UP THE SECTIONS
OF YARD BETWEEN IT TO TO MAKE
ALL THESE CONNECTIONS BECAUSE
IT IS LIKE I SAID IT GOT IT GOT
INSTALLED WITH THE THE
WAISTLINE THE WATERLINE AND SO
I SO IT'S RELATIVELY DEEP AND
UNDER NEW CONCRETE IS NEVER BUT
WAS THERE EVER A WAS THERE EVER
A FINAL INSPECTION OR A ROUGH
INSPECTION I MEAN AS A
CONTRACTOR YOU HAVE YOU HAVE
MULTIPLE PHASES OF CONSTRUCTION
SO YOU HAVE YOUR BRUSH THAT
WOULD TURN IT UP INTO AT THAT
POINT THE PLUMBING INSPECTORS
SHOULD HAVE SAID STOP THE SPOT
APPROVED AND THEN TO ME IT
LOOKS LIKE WE HAVE A HISTORY ON
THESE INSPECTIONS WAS NEVER
APPROVED.
SO BEFORE THE GAS LINE ON THE
INITIAL BILL THAT WAS
ASSOCIATED WITH THE INITIAL
GARAGE PERMIT OR WITH THE WITH
THE ORIGINAL GARAGE, THERE WAS
NO MECHANICAL PERMIT PULLED FOR
THE GAS LINE.
>> I ONLY JUST CAME IN AND PUT
IT IN WITHOUT INSPECTION, NO
PERMIT.
>> SO THERE WASN'T A PERMIT SO
IT WASN'T INSPECTED.
YEAH, THAT'S WHERE MY PROBLEM
THE PLUMBING STARTED WITH
ANOTHER HE DIDN'T FIND YOU
DIDN'T NOTICE IT IN FACT THE
GAS LEAK IN THE SAME TRENCH AND
I DON'T I CAN'T SPEAK TO WHAT
BUT YEAH I WOULD HAVE BEEN AN
OPPORTUNITY POTENTIALLY TO FLY
IT.
>> YEAH YEAH WELL I DON'T I
DON'T WANT TO POINT FINGERS AT
ANYBODY BUT I MEAN WE HAD WE
HAD INSPECTORS OUT I SWEAR IT
WAS LIKE TWENTY FIVE TIMES FOR
FOUR DIFFERENT THINGS AND I
KNOW THAT WE ASKED ABOUT THIS
AND IT WAS IT WAS LIKE THAT
THAT'S NOT WHAT I DO.
WE DIDN'T IT SEEMED LIKE IT
KIND OF FELL INTO A GRAY AREA
AND I APOLOGIZE IF IT SOUNDS
LIKE I'M MAKING EXCUSES BUT WE
WEREN'T PUTTING ANYTHING
MECHANICAL IN.
>> WE WERE ONLY PUTTING THE GAS
LINE IN FOR FUTURE WORK AND SO
IT SEEMED LIKE IT SEEMED LIKE
EVERYBODY WAS KIND OF SAYING
NO, THAT'S NOT WHAT I DO.
>> YOU KNOW, YOU'RE NOT DOING
ANY MECHANICAL STUFF BECAUSE
LIKE I SAID, THERE WAS NO
HEATER, THERE WAS NO GENERATOR.
>> THERE'S NOTHING OUT THERE
FOR THE NATURAL GAS TO GO TO.
BUT IT WAS IT WAS DEFINITELY
SEEN MANY, MANY TIMES.
IT WAS ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS
THAT HAPPENED.
I MEAN IT CAME THROUGH THE
CONCRETE SO THAT WAS DONE
BEFORE A STICK OF WOOD WAS PUT
UP.
THAT'S THE REASON THAT I
INCLUDED THE CONTRACTORS
RESPONSIBILITY SECTION ARLINDO
5.0.
YEAH,
AND USED TO HAVE A
RELATIONSHIP WITH A GENERAL
CONTRACTOR THAT BUILT THE
GARAGE.
>> YOU'D BE ABLE TO FIX THIS
STUFF FOR I MEAN HE DIDN'T
CLOSE THE GUYS GOING ON BUT
IT'S NOT WELL THERE WASN'T
THERE WASN'T A MECHANICAL
PERMIT FOR THE GAS LINES.
SO IT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S NOWHERE
I MEAN THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR
BOTTOM LINE DID THE WORK HE HAD
SOMEBODY COME IN.
YEAH, IT DID JUST YEAH.
YEAH.
POP UP.
HE DIDN'T SHOW UP ONE DAY SO
YEAH.
GENERAL CONTRACTOR SHOULD TAKE
THIS IS RESPONSIBLE TO MAKE IT
RIGHT EVEN IF IT WAS CONCRETE
BEING POURED EVEN IF THERE'S A
FACTORY THAT NEEDS TO BE CUT OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
YEAH GENERAL CONTRACTOR FALLS
BACK ON THEM TO MAKE IT RIGHT
MAKE IT FIVE
.
YEAH MY ISSUE IS JUST THAT
THERE IS NO PERMANENT POOL SO
AT ONE POINT SOMEONE HAD TO SAY
THIS IS NOT APPROVED BECAUSE
OF THIS.
YEAH YEAH YEAH OBSERVE IT AND
REALIZE IT AND THEN RIGHT
SUKANYA THE CONCRETE WAS POURED
SHOULD HAVE BEEN POURED
JUST
UNRELATED QUESTION BUT WHEN ALL
THE UTILITIES PUT THE GARAGE
WITH THAT TRENCH WAS DUG ALL
THE PIPES IN THE SAME TRENCH.
>> YES THERE ARE DIFFERENT
LEVELS.
THEY'RE SLIGHTLY UPSET BECAUSE
THE TRYING TO RUN BUT I THINK
THE WAISTLINE HAD TO BE A
DIFFERENT DEPTH THAN THE FEED
LINE FOR THE WATER.
BUT YES THEY ARE IT WAS ABOUT
THREE FEET WIDE AND FIVE FEET
OR SO DEEP BUT YEAH BUT THEY'RE
NEAR EACH OTHER.
>> YEAH YEAH.
I MEAN YOU CAN'T I'M I'M I'M
ONE OF THE POSSIBILITIES I HAVE
TO CONFIRM WITH YOU CAN'T GO IN
THE SAME TRENCH ELECTRIFYING
GAS NOT NOT ELECTRICAL SORRY
ONLY ONLY WATER OUT WAIST BACK
BECAUSE THE WAIST TIES INTO OUR
HOUSE AND THE GAS THERE'S NO
ELECTRICAL IN THE SAME TRENCH.
>> I APOLOGIZE IF I SAID THAT
MEAN THE WORST CASE THE
EQUIVALENT OF A WHOLE NEW GAS
LINE BUT IF TO BRING A BIG DOWN
TIME BACK INTO THAT THING IT
SEEMS LIKE THEY'RE GOING TO CUT
A HOLE IN EACH END AND WELL THE
THING IS THAT YOU HAVE TO HAVE
A SOLID SOLID RUN.
>> YEAH, MAYBE YOU DON'T WANT
TO DO THAT RIGHT NOW.
THAT IS WHAT YOU HAVE.
YEAH.
YEP.
HE'S GOT THAT SOFT BUT THE
PROBLEM IS THAT THERE EVER
HAPPENED TO THAT EXPLOSION
OF THAT LINE WOULD BLOW UP THAT
FOUNDATION THIS MORNING WHEN I
WAS WITH THIS FROM OUTSIDE
OF STAYING OUTSIDE AND HEARD UP
THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE WHERE
FIRE RATINGS ARE PUT IN PLACE
FOR THAT REASON AND BECAUSE WE
WENT THROUGH A FOUNDATION
THAT'S THE PROBLEM.
AND IF THEY DON'T HAVE THE
PROPER LIKE YOU CAN'T SEE RIGHT
NOW, YOU KNOW, THEY HAVE THEY
DON'T HAVE THE CONCRETE IS FLAT
AROUND PIPE AND THERE'S NO
PROTECTION AROUND THAT PIPE.
>> YOU CAN'T PUT CONCRETE UP
AGAINST THIS BECAUSE THE LINE
WILL DETERIORATE THAT LINE AND
THAT'S WHY THEY PUT A CUSHION
AROUND THOSE LINES SO WHOEVER
DID THIS DID IT FOR HEY, LET'S
JUST TALK OUTSIDE IN HERE JUST
FOR THE FUTURE.
BUT IT JUST DIDN'T DO IT RIGHT
AND THAT'S YOUR CONDUIT, YOUR
GAS LINE WILL DETERIORATE OVER
TIME.
>> IT'S A GREAT GAS LINE BUT
THE CONCRETE ITSELF WON'T
DETERIORATE THAT GAS AND THAT
CONTRACTOR SHOULD COME BACK,
BRING THIS UP, PAY FOR THE
FOUNDATION, PAY FOR THE EVERY
BIT, TURN THIS UP OUTSIDE AND
PUT IT RIGHT AND THAT'S WHAT
SHOULD HAPPEN
IS THAT EVEN IF
THEY REMOVE THIS LINE BECAUSE
THEY HAVE BEEN IN THIS LINE, IT
STILL CONNECTS.
YOU KNOW, I GUESS IF YOU DON'T
ASK EITHER END OF IT I GUESS
WELL VERY WELL HE THEY COULD
CHIP UP THE CONCRETE THAT'S
RIGHT THERE.
THEY COULD TRIP UP THE CONCRETE
THAT'S ON THE OUTSIDE AND THEY
COULD PULL IT DIG IT DOWN.
PULL IT OUT.
YEAH.
BEND IT BACK UP ON THE OUTSIDE
OF THE HOUSE.
PUT IT ON YOUR YOUR
CONNECTIONS.
YEAH.
THEN LIKE THAT THAT'S WHAT YOU
WOULD TRY TO DO.
YEAH.
AND IF THE GAS AND WITH THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO BE CUTTING OFF
THE PART THAT IS BENT AND IS
CORRODED AND UNDER PRESSURE AND
YOU'RE NOT YOU'RE NOT
COMPROMISING THE SINGLE LINE
THAT COMES FROM THE HOUSE TO
THE OUTSIDE IT'S JUST LAZY
CONSTRUCTION THAT'S OFFICERS
THERE THERE IS SOMETHING I
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S OBVIOUS BUT
THEY SAID IT WAS SPECIFICALLY
MADE TO GO THROUGH CONCRETE AND
AGAIN, I'M FAR FROM AN EXPERT
SO I APOLOGIZE.
THAT DOESN'T EVEN MAKE SENSE.
BUT THAT WAS WHAT THEY TOLD US
IS THAT THIS STUFF WAS MADE TO
COME THROUGH CONCRETE.
>> THAT'S HOW IT WORKS WELL.
BUT AGAIN, I'LL YIELD TO A
JUDGMENT ON THAT.
THE PROBLEM IS WE DON'T HAVE
ANY CUTS.
YOU DON'T HAVE ANY
SPECIFICATIONS OR HAVE ANYTHING
THAT HAS THAT.
IF IT DOES YOU KNOW THERE'S
SOME KIND OF NUMBERS ON THE
SIDE OF IT BUT YOU CAN'T READ
ANY OF THAT STUFF.
>> YOU'RE YOU'RE BETTER IN MY
OPINION WOULD BE GETTING ON THE
PHONE THE CONTRACTOR GETTING
THIS EXPLANATION DIRECTLY FROM
HIM BEFORE WE MAKE A DECISION
AND HAVE HIM COME AND DEFEND
WHAT HE DID AND IF HE DOES HAVE
EVIDENCE THAT SHOWS THAT HE CAN
DO THAT, IT CAN DO THESE
THINGS, THEN THAT'S WHAT IT IS.
>> BUT RIGHT NOW WHAT YOU'RE
LOOKING AT JUST HAVING THAT
CONCRETE TIGHT AROUND YOUR GAS
LINE, IT'S OK.
IT'S NOT OK.
YOU CAN'T YOU CAN'T DO THAT AND
YOU YOU SHOULDN'T HAVE IT GO
THROUGH YOUR HOUSE BECAUSE YOU
DON'T IF HE TOOK ENOUGH IN MY
OPINION, IF HE TOOK ENOUGH RISK
JUST TO THROW THAT IN THERE FOR
YOU.
WHO KNOWS WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
GOING THROUGH YOUR FOUNDATION.
>> WHAT WHAT LOOKS IS
UNDERNEATH THERE AND HOW MUCH
WATER IS COMING THROUGH THE
LINE IF YOU DIDN'T FEEL THAT
LINE COMING THROUGH YOUR
FOUNDATION WALL, WHAT KIND
OF CRACKS ARE GOING TO HAVE
SHEFF'S MOVEMENTS, ALL THAT
STUFF IF THIS LINE EVER BLOWS
UP YOU LOSE YOUR ENTIRE CORNER
OF YOUR HOUSE AND IT'S A TWO
STOREY GARAGE.
I JUST WOULDN'T TAKE IT I
WOULDN'T TAKE THAT RISK IN MY
OWN HOUSE, HAVE MY KIDS THERE.
YOU KNOW, IF SOMETHING EVER
HAPPENED JUST BECAUSE OF LAZY
CONTRACTOR
YOU KNOW THE OTHER
ISSUE WITH CONCRETE AROUND AND
THINGS LIKE THAT, IT PREVENTS
ANY MOVEMENT AND I JUST WANT TO
MOVE BE WARM.
THEY EXPAND AND WE ACTUALLY
DESIGN TYPE CONNECTIONS TO
ALLOW FLEX AND IF YOU GRAB
SOMETHING I TYPE LIKE THAT WHAT
YOU'RE LIKELY TO GET IS CRACKS
AROUND THAT LOCATION AS THE
PIPE SHIFTS OVER TIME,
TEMPERATURE CHANGES WILL CAUSE
CRACKS BECAUSE YOU PULLING
REALLY TIGHT IN ONE SPOT.
>> YEAH THAT'S THE OTHER REASON
WHY YOU PUT THE IT RIGHT.
YEAH THAT'S A LOT OF FLEX
BECAUSE IT'S PRETTY MUCH A
CLAMP SYSTEM THAT IT WILL AT
ALL ALLOW MOVEMENT AND FLEX IN
YOUR LINE AND SO RIGHT NOW WITH
THAT WITH THAT WITH IT UNABLE
TO MOVE LIKE THIS IT'S JUST
GOING TO HOLD LIKE THIS AND
THAT'S JUST GOING TO BREAK OPEN
IF THE HEAT AND YOU KNOW THE
TEMPERATURE ON THE OUTSIDE
OF THE HOUSE TO THE INSIDE
OF THE HOUSE, THAT'S WHY HOUSES
MOVE AND THAT IT WILL BREAK AND
IT JUST WOULDN'T BE A GOOD
THING.
>> DR. KING TOOK ADVANTAGE
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THE BOARD
OR THE I WOULD I THINK ABOUT
BEFORE WE MAKE A MOTION AND IF
IT'S ONCE WE MAKE THE MOTION
THAT'S THAT'S THAT'S WHAT YOU
HAVE TO DO.
IF YOU WANT TO TABLE IT, COME
BACK FOR NEXT MONTH AND TALK TO
YOUR CONTRACTOR ABOUT COMING IN
HERE AND SEE WHAT OTHER OPTIONS
YOU MIGHT HAVE AND WHAT HE
MIGHT HAVE IF HE COMES UP WITH
ANYTHING BECAUSE IF IF IF WE
END UP APPROVING OR DENYING IT,
THERE'S NO OVERTURNING THAT
DECISION.
>> OK, AND I CAN REACH OUT TO
HIM.
I KNOW THAT HE HE MENTIONED
SEVERAL TIMES THAT IT WAS THIS
IS THE WAY THAT YOU DO THINGS.
I KNOW THAT AT LEAST WHEN IT
GOES THROUGH THE FOUNDATION IT
IS SLEEVED.
THAT'S NOT THE BIGGEST THING
GOING ON HERE BUT THAT'S NOT
THE POINT.
>> THAT'S NOT THE POINT.
THE POINT IS THAT THE CURRENT
CONFIGURATION DOESN'T MEET
CODE .
THE ONLY WAY AROUND IT IS TO
GET IT OUT OF THE PICTURE
THAT'S ON PAGE SEVENTEEN AND
HAVE THE GASLINE COME UP
OUTSIDE THE HOUSE OUTSIDE THE
GARAGE STRUCTURE AND THEN BACK
IN RIGHT NOW IT'S UNDERNEATH
THE GARAGE SLAB.
YOU CAN'T DO THAT.
>> THAT'S THE ISSUE.
I MEAN ALL THE OTHER THINGS
THAT WERE SAID ABOUT THE PIPE
MOVEMENT AND CONCRETE UP
AGAINST THE PIPE IS TRUE.
BUT THE BASIC ISSUE AS I
UNDERSTAND IT IS THAT IT'S
COMING IN UNDERNEATH THE GARAGE
,THE GARAGE SLAB AND THAT'S A
NO NO THERE'S NO THERE'S NO WAY
TO FINESSE THAT.
SO THAT'S TRUE.
SO IT'S NOT DECIDED WHETHER OR
NOT YEAH.
SO DOES IT BELONG THERE?
YEAH, WE CAME UP WITH
ADDITIONAL ONE.
THAT'S RIGHT YEAH.
YEAH EXACTLY.
THE FIRST KENDRICK CAN I SAY
THAT IF IF IT WERE A SEPARATE
APPEAL THAT IT SHOULD BE AN
APPEAL NOT BROUGHT LIKE I FEEL
LIKE WE SHOULD SEPARATE THE TWO
IF YOU THINK A CONTRACTOR
SHOULD BE THE PERSON WHO'S
MAKING AN APPEAL I THINK THAT
IT'S A SEPARATE APPEAL FROM
WHAT THE HOMEOWNERS ARE DOING.
BUT I JUST I PERSONALLY AGREE
WITH THE FACT IS I BROUGHT UP A
SEPARATE ISSUE RIGHT.
LIKE MY SEPARATE ISSUE IS THAT
THE PAY IS THAT SHOULDN'T BE IN
CONCRETE IN THE FIRST PLACE.
THAT'S NOT WHAT THE QUESTION IS
ON THE REVERSE OF THE QUESTION
RIGHT NOW IS THAT COMING IN
THROUGH THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE
INTO THE GARAGE AND IT CAN'T DO
THAT RIGHT IS WHAT YOU'VE DONE.
THE OTHER THING IS THE
CONTRACTOR IS STILL LIABLE FOR
THIS.
YES.
YOU DID SOMETHING THAT WASN'T
APPROVED WASN'T ANYTHING.
ABSOLUTELY.
IF HE WANTS TO MAKE THE
CONTRACTOR FALL HERE BUT YEAH,
THAT'S NOT I WOULD THINK THAT
THE STRENGTH OF YOUR ARGUMENT
WITH YOUR CONTRACTOR IS THAT HE
TRIED TO GET A VARIANCE FOR HIS
WORK AND IT DIDN'T PASS MUSTER
.
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
WHAT HE DID IS ILLEGAL AND HE
GAVE YOU FALSE INFORMATION THAT
YOU CAN DO IT AND IT'LL BE OK
BUT IT'S NOT AND YOU CAN'T DO
IT SO WHAT WHAT YOUR CONTRACT
WITH HIM IS TO DO STUFF PER
CODE , PER BUILDING PER
EVERYTHING AND HE DIDN'T DO IT
ESPECIALLY TRYING TO HIDE A GAS
LINE A GAS LINE YOU DON'T MESS
WITH THAT'S A VERY BIG PLUMBING
THING THAT WILL MAKE OR BREAK A
HOUSE.
SO I WOULD I'D GO RIGHT BACK TO
HIM AND PUT THIS ALL ON HIS LAP
.
OK,
INMOTION I MOVED IT IN THE
CASE OF AND SURE I GET THE
RIGHT THING I MOVED IT IN THE
CASE OF BVA TWENTY FOUR ZERO
ZERO ZERO TO THE APPEAL OF THE
BUILDING OFFICIALS DECISION TO
GASLINE INSTALLED AT FOURTEEN
THIRTY FIVE CATTALINI DRIVE IS
DENIED AND THE BOARD OF APPEALS
THE BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS
FIRMS THE BUILDING OFFICIALS
DECISION FOR THE FOLLOWING
REASONS ONE THAT THE TRUE
INTENT OF THE 2015 MICHIGAN
RESIDENTIAL CODE AND SECTION
G24 FIFTEEN POINT SIX FOR THE
GASLINE INSTALLED AT FOURTEEN
THIRTY FIVE ALIEV DRIVE HAVE
BEEN CORRECTLY INTERPRETED BY
THE BUILDING OFFICIAL TO THAT
THE PROVISION OF THE 2015
RESIDENT MICHIGAN RESIDENTIAL
CODE SECTION G24 15 POINT SIX
DOES APPLY TO THE CONSTRUCTION
OF 14 35 CATALINA DRIVE THREE
THE APPLICANT IS NOT PROPOSED
AN EQUAL OR BETTER FORM
OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY
OF SECOND LEVEL THOSE IN FAVOR
I THE VARIANCE IS NINE
.
OK THANK YOU JOHN.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME MR..
>> ALL RIGHT.
>> THAT CLOSES THE APPEALS
ACTIONS WHICH SHOW CAUSE
HEARING PORTION OF THE AGENDA
ALL BUSINESS ANYTHING I YOU NEW
BUSINESS NOTHING IN MOTION TO
ADJOURN TO ADJOURN SECOND WAS A
FAVOR HIGH PRICES TWENTY EIGHT